Overview of AV300 hardware
--------------------------

ata.h
    The archos av300 uses an ATA/USB2 bridge chip. This can be switched to 2
    modes of operation. 1, where the av300 can read and write from and to the
    hard disk drive, and 2, where the hard drive is available to a host computer
    over USB.
    Aditionally if a memory card reader is used, the av300 can read and write
    data to and from the card.
    
buttons.h
    The av300 has 3 menu buttons, a joystick, an on buttons, and an off button.
    The joystick can also be pressed. Diagonals are impossible in hardware.
    The menu buttons, directions of joystick, and joystick press, are all
    readable at any time.
    The on and off buttons are also readable at any time, but additiionally can
    be used to generate an interrupt. (These 2 buttons go through the GIO).
    
dma.h
    The av300 has a general purpose dma system. This can be used to move large
    amounts of data, without it having to go through the cpu. The 2 uses of this
    that are currently know are:
    1. To move data from sdram to ATA, and vica versa. This could speed up disk
       access, especially where we can do other things while the DMA is taking
       place such as playing an mp3 file. We can just tell the DMA system to
       load the rest of the file while we play it.
    2. To move data around in SDRAM. This could be extremely useful for many
       things. Especially where we can pipeline things so that the cpu can be
       doing one job while the dma is preparing data for the next frame/etc

ecr.h
    The cpu contains a dedicated Endianness Conversion Register. This allows us
    to quickly convert data from big endian to little endian byte order. It also
    allows us to convert on a bit basis. eg.
    01234567 89abcdef -> swapBytes -> 89abcdef 01234567
    01234567 89abcdef -> swapBits  -> fedcba98 76543210
    
gio.h
    The general purpose input output lines are an extremely important part of
    the archos av300. They give us access to 32 general purpose input output
    lines.
    The i2c bus is accessed through the gio, so is mas data etc.
    We can set lines, get input lines, configure lines as input output.
    Aditionally we can set an interrupt to occur on gio lines 0-7.
    
i2c.h
    The i2c bus is a simple bus that allows us to talk to some other hardware.
    devices on the i2c bus are:
    1. The real time clock (RTC).
    2. The battery meter.
    3. The mas (mp3 encoder decoder).
    
interrupts.h
    The cpu has a number of interrupts that can be generated such as gio lines,
    OSD sync, uart data recieved interrupts, timers etc
    We can setup an interrupt handler, get the cause of an interrupt. We can
    also enable or disable each interrupt individually.
    
mas.h
    The mas chip is our gateway to all audio processing on the av300. It is
    directly connected to the audio input, audio output, and microphone.
    It is a general purpose dsp, and can have custom code written for it to
    support many audio codecs etc. It has mp3 decoding and encoding in ROM
    which we can use at the moment.
    We can control parameters such as volume, bass, treble, balance, etc and
    additionally we can get VU meter type input and output values to display.
    
osdDSC25.h
    The TMS320DSC25 has a built in on screen display (OSD). This is how we
    configure the LCD. Also, in conjuction with a gio output line, we can
    switch on external video.
    The OSD has 2 video planes (YCbCr colorspace), 2 bitmap planes (2,4,16 or
    256 colors taken from a YCbCr pallette), a bitmap cursor, a rectangle
    cursor, and a background border color.
    Bitmap planes can either be merged with the video planes to get a partially
    see through effect, or the bitmap can be transparent where the color is 0.
    Each of these components can be moved around the display, and resized as
    required. Also the planes can be hardware scaled x2 or x4 independently in
    the horizontal and vertical directions.
    In components that use a pallette, either the default ROM pallette can be
    used, or a user configurable ram pallette can be chosen.
    The addresses in SDRAM can be configured for each component, and can be
    switched easily to provide things like double buffering, scrolling around
    a large image etc.

power.h
    The current 'ac adapter plugged in' status can be retrieved, and also the
    current charge of the battery can be read via i2c. At the moment the
    calibration of the output values is not known, and more experimentation
    must be done to be able to use it effectively.
    
rtc.h
    The Real time clock has around 64 bytes of memory. It stores the current
    time and date in some of this, the rest can be used to store program
    configuration settings etc. The current time and date can be retreived and
    set.
    
timers.h
    The CPU contains 4 general purpose timers. The function of each can be
    chosen from [off, one shot, and continuous]. Each timer also has a maximal
    count configured for it, which will determine the frequency of the timer,
    or the time taken for a one shot mode.
    The current count of each timer can be read. Additionally each timer
    generates an interrupt when the current value reaches the maximal count
    value for that timer. Then if it's set to continuous mode, it resets the
    current count and starts counting again.
    
uart.h
    The CPU has support for 2 serial uart ports. One is connected directly to
    the serial port on the bottom of the unit. It is unknown if the other one
    is used for anything such as the fm remote or not.
    Data can be read and written, the baud rate and line options can be set.
    The uart can be configured to generate an interrupt upon reception or
    transmission of data.
    
usb.h
    The usb port is wired directly to an ATA/USB2 bridge. The only function the
    usb can do is mount the hard drive as a usb mass storage device. This is
    all done in hardware and cannot be changed. Additionally the usb port is
    a host only, not a master. So adding usb periferals is not an option.
    The current 'is usb lead connected' status can be retrieved (Note it must
    also be plugged into something the other end of the cable).
    The current ata mode can be changed from the av300 reading/writing data to
    ATA, to the USB host being able to mount the drive.
    Note these 2 cannot happen at the same time. As far as I know the hardware
    does not allow it, but also you would get 2 things modifying the hard drive
    at the same time which would lead to errors.
    Also note that I don't know of any way to be able to mount a memory card
    over udb via a memory card reader plugged into the av300. This also may not
    be possible in hardware.

